
Music recommendation program based on a user's favourite album/genre and what people who listen to the same album/genre

Using dataset of top 5000 most popular albums on RateYourMusic (sonemic),

A computational plan for your project. (400–600 words)

Describe what kind of data your project will use to represent your chosen domain.
Clearly explain how you will use trees and/or graphs to model a central part of the data. While your project can
certainly use other data types (e.g., sets, lists), trees and/or graphs must play a prominent role in your program.

If your project requires real-world data, provide a source for at least one relevant dataset you have found, and provide
some sample data contained inside that dataset.

Describe the kinds of computations you plan to perform, such as: building trees/graphs from a dataset or computation,
data transformation/filtering/aggregation, computational models, and/or algorithms.

Your proposed computations can be based on what you’ve done in lectures/tutorials/assignments, but should not simply
replicate work you’ve already done.

Explain how your program will display or report the results of your computations in a visual and/or interactive way.
You don’t need to go into a lot of detail here, but it should be clear what you plan to do.



Our project will use a tree to represent the albums in our dataset in a hierarchical manner. Starting from the root,
the tree will branch into broad genres (pop, rock, hip-hop, etc.) with each genre then branching into more specific
subgenres (ex. the genre 'Rock' may branch into subgenres like 'Noise Rock', 'Pop Rock' or 'Psychedelic Rock').
Subgenres may also have their own subgenres (ex. 'Hip-Hop' may branch into 'Trap' which branches into 'Drill' which
branches into 'UK Drill'). This tree will be visually displayed on a graphical interface and users will be able to
interact and explore the tree on their own by clicking deeper into the tree. To prevent the tree from becoming too large
in the visualization, we will only display a tree with a maximum depth of  on the interface each time, whenever a user
clicks on a genre, it will update the interface to display a new tree with that genre being the new root of the
tree.

We will display a sorted list of the top 10 recommendations on the side of the graphical interface.

We are using a dataset we found on the website Kaggle of the top 5000 most popular albums based on the number of
user ratings on the music database website RateYourMusic (Sonemic).



https://pastebin.com/RyvFZf1V
https://pastebin.com/eJ38Pin8
